URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/analyticsnerd_no-llm-model-is-going-to-disagree-because-activity-7299928526470668288-IKRV
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Himanshu Sharma的动态
Himanshu Sharma

GA4, BigQuery, AI Agents, Digital Analytics.

7 个月

No LLM model is going to disagree because I have already validated my theory. The whole idea of "AI rankings" is a marketing gimmick, not an actual measurable or controllable system. Before you sign up for an AI rank tracking tool and pay $$$ >> AI generated responses are based on probabilistic models, not deterministic rankings. 

AI "predict" responses based on training data, prompt context, user specific personalization, reinforcement learning.... All of these factors are outside of your control. You can not optimize for these factors. 

Trying to "optimize" for AI mentions is like trying to control what an AI chatbot randomly says. It’s unreliable, non-repeatable, and changes with every model update. There is no such thing as "AI rankings". 

AI does not rank mentions or links like search engines. There is no fixed and reliable pattern recognition of recurring mentions in AI-generated responses. 

Trying to rank in AI responses is like trying to rank in someone’s random thoughts. If you are still in doubt, ask your favourite AI chatbot or do a 'DEEP RESEARCH' and confirm what I said. No LLM model is going to disagree because I have already validated my theory.

21
赞
评论
分享

要查看或添加评论，请登录

47,660 位关注者

3000+ 则动态
 300 篇文章
查看档案  关注
更多文章
Learn the 80/20 of Webhooks for Workflow Automation within 3 Minutes.
Himanshu Sharma  21 小时前
Learn the 80/20 of APIs for Workflow Automation within 5 Minutes.
Himanshu Sharma  1 天前
Know this before you trust Opal, Base44, or Lovable with your workflows.
Himanshu Sharma  3 天前
探索相关领域
How to Understand LLM Evaluation Methods
Understanding Why AI Models Generate False Information
Factors That Influence AI Search Visibility
How to Measure LLM Intelligence
AI Security Guidance for LLMs
How Llms Process Language
展开 
浏览内容分类
Career
Productivity
Finance
Soft Skills & Emotional Intelligence
Project Management
Educa