URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/joe-wiggins-353b5534_a-topic-i-have-changed-my-mind-on-during-activity-7201122859803377665-KVMo
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Joe Wiggins的动态
Joe Wiggins

Behaviouralinvestment.com

1 年

A topic I have changed my mind on during my career is concentration in funds. I used to be strongly of the view that it was only worth taking active investment positions if they came with high conviction – usually in the form of concentrated positioning – otherwise, what’s the point? Although I came to realise I was wrong about this, I am aware that many people far smarter than me remain advocates of this type of approach. Why do I think it is a problem when they don’t?

Fund concentration is not the easiest concept to define. There are obvious examples such as very focused equity portfolios with large weightings in individual companies, but there is more to it than that. Concentration doesn’t have to be about position sizes in stocks, it can come through an extreme sensitivity to a certain theme, concept or risk factor. It is about our exposure to specific and singular points of failure. Could one thing go wrong and lead to disaster?

One of the most common arguments made by advocates of running very concentrated equity portfolios is that it is an inherently lower risk pursuit because we can know far more about a narrow list of companies than a long list. If we have a 10 stock portfolio we can grasp the companies in a level of detail that is just not possible if we hold 100 stocks, and this depth of understanding means that our risk is reduced. The first part of this is right, the second part is wrong.

The problem, I think, stems from the fact that there are two types of uncertainty – epistemic and aleatoric. Epistemic uncertainty is the type that can be reduced by the acquisition of more data and knowledge. Here the idea of portfolio concentration lowering risk makes sense. Conversely, aleatoric uncertainty is inherent in the system; it is the randomness and unpredictability that cannot be reduced. It doesn’t matter how well we know a company or an investment, 