URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/gabriela-czanner-0989b716_stu-fiit-mit-activity-7264940650649866241-oKkN
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Gabriela Czanner的动态
Gabriela Czanner

Professor in Digital Health at the University of Southampton. Expert in Applied Informatics, AI and Medical Statistics. Chartered Statistician (CStat) by RSS. Member of BCS.

10 个月

On November 5th, Gabriela Czanner and Silvester Czanner hosted a MasterClass, diving into the theme: “Bridging Neuroscience and AI – Understanding the Unconscious and Uncertainty”, at Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies, Slovak University of Technology.

This event was a part of the MIT-FIIT project, "Uncertainty-Aware Artificial Intelligence for Detection of Brain and Eye Diseases", funded by the MIT International Science & Technology Initiatives (MISTI) Global Seeds Fund. The project is spearheaded by Professor Emery N. Brown Brown (Harvard/MIT) and Gabriela Czanner (Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies, Slovak University of Technology Liverpool John Moores University), with an incredible team including Sirma Orguc (MIT), Silvester Czanner (Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies, Slovak University of Technology and University of Chester), Martina Billichová Billichova (PhD student, Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies, Slovak University of Technology), and Michal Lüley (PhD student, Faculty of Informatics and Information Technologies, Slovak University of Technology FIIT STU).

We had the honour of Professor Emery N. Brown Brown (Harvard/MIT) joining us online to present “Deciphering the Dynamics of the Unconscious Brain under General Anesthesia.” He took us on a mind-blowing journey, revealing how his team captures the brain’s dynamic states as it transitions under anaesthesia. We explored the mathematical and statistical tools used to analyse this data, opening new doors to understanding the mysteries of unconsciousness.

Next, Gabriela Czanner (FIIT STU & LJMU UK) spoke on “Uncertainty Quantification of AI’s Predictions for Health.” She introdu