URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/warrenbpowell_there-is-a-long-history-of-people-promoting-activity-7334974103214284800-8omk
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Warren Powell的动态
Warren Powell 
Warren Powell是领英影响力人物

Professor Emeritus, Princeton University/ Co-Founder, Optimal Dynamics/ Executive-in-Residence Rutgers Business School

4 个月

There is a long history of people promoting either Bayesian or frequentist statistical learning. I have had people hiss at me if I mentioned the “wrong” perspective.
 
I have never figured this out. I use both, sometimes at the same time. Bayesian learning is a powerful method when I am working on problems where I have to make decisions with no data, or very limited data. Frequentist statistics is the go-to methodology when data is readily available.
 
Chapter 3 of my RLSO book is called “Online Learning” and covers both Bayesian and frequentist statistics, without a hint of discussion of which his “better.”
 
https://lnkd.in/dB99tHtM (“tinyurl.com/” with “RlandSO”)
 
Chapter 3 can be downloaded from
 
https://lnkd.in/e2dSXV7R 
 
I am confused by the existence of entire books focusing purely on one style or the other. Physicians are going to use their experience (aka “Bayesian prior”) when making decisions about the best course of treatment. Forecasters are going to use time-series modeling to perform demand forecasts (“frequentist statistics”). 
 
In a paper modeling wind energy, where we had to capture “crossing times” (how long the actual was above or below the forecast), we used a hidden Markov model which used an unobservable state variable to describe whether we were in a short, medium or long crossing time (this would be a Bayesian belief model), combined with the frequentist updating of a time series model. 

 Statistical learning arises throughout sequential decision problems. Whether we are forecasting, optimizing a parameter, estimating the value of being in a state, or approximating a policy… sometimes a Bayesian belief model is appropriate, more often I am using frequentist modeling. If you want to have a complete analytics toolbox,