URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/thomas-swinburne-ab4a01200_uncertainty-quantification-for-misspecified-activity-7364029715982032897-7DaP
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Thomas Swinburne的动态
Thomas Swinburne

Faculty at University of Michigan and Visiting Researcher, CNRS Physique

1 个月  已编辑

New paper in NPJ Computational Materials! https://lnkd.in/eeSzixz7 

We explore misspecification uncertainty for machine learning interatomic potentials (SNAP and MACE), showing how our misspecification-aware UQ scheme POPS (Swinburne & Perez ML:S&T 2025) allows us to *robustly bound* MD simulation outputs compared to DFT test data, efficiently propagating UQ from force-field level directly to relaxed simulation outputs via implicit differentiation (Maliyov et al. NPJ 2025, currently a featured article). We also show how this overcomes the many issues with ensemble UQ methods. 

Misspecification is the mathematical definition of the famous aphorism "all models are wrong, but some are useful"- no matter what parameters we choose, models will always have an error. This is essentially always the case for surrogate models (replacing an expensive routine with a cheap one) but standard Bayesian schemes are provably blind to misspecification (see the above cited ML:S&T article and my post from earlier this year). Current treatment of misspecification uncertainty in scientific ML is far behind aleatoric and epistemic UQ, but must be treated if we want to propagate max/min bounds through complex simulation workflows for trustworthy results.

A great pleasure to collaborate with Danny Perez and postdocs Aparna Subramanyam and Ivan Maliyov (now Microsoft Quantum), as always !

Uncertainty quantification for misspecified machine learned interatomic potentials - npj Computational Materials
nature.com
131
1 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Giuseppe Fisicaro

Theoretical and computational materials scientist at CNR (Catania, Italy) Institute for Microelectronics and Microsystems

2 周

Congratulations Thomas Swinburne!!!

赞
回复

要查看或添加评论，请登录

最相关的动态
Jorge Bravo Abad

AI/ML for Science & DeepTech | PI of the AI for Materials Lab | Prof. of 