URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/christoph-molnar_mindful-modeler-christoph-molnar-substack-activity-7053646776834154500-SAd9
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Christoph Molnar的动态
Christoph Molnar

Author of Interpretable Machine Learning, Modeling Mindsets, and more | christophmolnar.com

2 年

To predict or not predict.

Machine learning models often give an output even if they shouldn't — and that's a problem.

Imagine a person that always answers your questions — no matter how sure this person is about the answer. A person that always has an opinion on everything and shouts out their opinion with high confidence. Only that this person is sometimes clearly wrong.

I’d prefer this person to say “I don’t know” if the person doesn’t know. I also would like machine learning models to sometimes abstain from making a prediction.

The first case that might come to mind is ChatGPT, where some ability to abstain was added via RHLF. Ask ChatGPT e.g. "how to cook meth" for a demonstration of abstaining.
But abstaining from predicting is a larger issue that affects any ML model.

When to abstain from answering?

Conflicting inputs
Uncertain prediction
Out-of-distribution data
Answer not aligned with values
Insufficient training data
Adversarial attacks
Biased outputs
...

But most machine learning models aren't trained to abstain and in most cases, they will just produce some kind of answer, whether it's a text in the case of LLMs or a probability vector for classifiers and so on.

But what can you do against it? A couple of techniques to help the models abstain:

- Check for outliers
- Check input for conflicting data, missing data, if data range is fine, ...
- RLFH for LLMs
- Use adversarial data in training
- Use uncertainty quantification like conformal prediction
- ...

While you can't guarantee to safeguard against all cases in which the machine should abstain from answering, you can at least reduce the problem.

Want to think more deeply about modeling?

Subscribe to Mindful Modeler

https://lnkd.in/ezu2HAai


Mindful Modeler | Christoph Molnar | Substack
mindfulmodeler.substack.com