URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/gurkan-sin-a081006_uncertaintyquantification-sensitivityanalysis-activity-7368946792857575424-UW5k
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Gurkan Sin的动态
Gurkan Sin

Professor at DTU Chemical Engineering - Technical University of Denmark

1 个月  已编辑

Just wrapped up my summer school on uncertainty and sensitivity analysis (August 18-22, 2025), which was our 16th edition in a row -a journey we started back then in 2009. 

We had 27 researchers, mostly from academia with some from industry, come together to explore contemporary methods for analyzing numerical model outputs, especially with Monte Carlo methods. 
My mission here is simple: to build intuition—to get a feel for the theory and then immediately apply it in hands-on practice.

The key message to our participants:  randomize and shake the foundations of their models. After all there is nothing really pre-ordained when it comes to choice of models and how one builds them. There is a good deal of heuristics. Well call this my theory of modeling.  
Whether it's a first-principles based model or machine learning, I ask them to challenge their inputs, their parameters, their assumptions, their model structure, and see if their models could still stand on their feet.

And then came the part that, for me, is always very exciting—it’s a privilege, really. The participants presented their own research. The sheer variety of topics was incredible and showed just how numerical methods/models are part of modern research. We saw models for:

Chemical and Process Engineering: Everything from photocatalysis, N2O models for wastewater treatment, and green ammonia production to complex separation processes like membrane systems for carbon capture and DAC.
Energy & Sustainability: Models for salt-based energy storage, sustainable aviation fuels, and CO2 electrolysis.
Data Science & Reliability: Tackling uncertainty in ML for biomass property predictions, creating surrogate models for complex distillation system or ML for control (Health-Aware MPCs), and predicting time-to-failure for components where parametric uncertainty