URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/esther-gimeno-miro_ai-criticalthinking-uncertainty-activity-7374317503587536896-jfSP
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Esther Gimeno Miró的动态
Esther Gimeno Miró

Lingüista computacional & Líder creativa de proyectos | IA conversacional | Cofundadora de CABE | Tendiendo puentes entre lenguaje, tecnología y cultura

2 周  已编辑

So… in my last post, I claimed that critical thinking rests on eternal questioning, not on certainties. I'd like to push this idea a little further, as certainty can even be a marker of madness.

Whoever never doubts doesn’t just lack critical thinking; they also risk compromising their mental health. And that’s an interesting point, since we are constantly bombarded by people who claim to HAVE the answer, the method, the philosophy, the diet, the routine we ALL need to succeed.

In clinical settings, absolute rigidity in beliefs (without a trace of doubt) is a red flag, often seen in delusions, paranoia, obsessive fanaticism, or psychosis. In philosophy, Popper already argued that knowledge must always be falsifiable — if it can’t be questioned, it’s not knowledge but dogma.

And yet, we live in times where certainty is rewarded: hot takes, “strong opinions,” viral claims. Even our machines (LLMs, algorithms, recommender systems) reinforce what looks certain to the user; the question is WHY, and answering this question implies asking some others:

1. What expectations must AIs fulfill to be profitable?
2. Why don’t we train the models — or at least design their interfaces — not just to predict, but to show their uncertainty range?
3. Would it be desirable to have epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty values at hand for the user to determine best course of action? (NB: epistemic uncertainty is about the limits of the model’s knowledge; aleatoric uncertainty is about the variability of the world itself)
4. How should we balance what the user wants vs. what the user needs —like in education, healthcare, or training, where clients trust expertise and often accept to hear what they need, not just what they want.
5. Do we trust