URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/mrdbourke_computervision-llm-objectdetection-activity-7351822487069872128-3aax
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Daniel Bourke的动态
Daniel Bourke

Teaching beginners AI/ML at zerotomastery.io, building nutrify.app & keeptrack.app

2 个月

Here's what a CEO cuddling his head of HR at a Coldplay concert taught me about zero-shot detection models:

1. Just like LLMs you can prompt zero-shot detection models. 

Notice how you can inject details into the classes to get specific detections. 

The model even picks up on "coldplay concert bracelet".

2. Start generic and increase complexity as necessary. 

If you inject too much information, the model might get confused. 

So start with simple terms such as "man" and "woman" or "person" and add details if you aren't getting the right results.

3. If you're building a custom detection dataset from scratch, zero-shot detection models are a great place to start. 

You can use the workflow:
- Label raw data with zero-shot model
- Train supervised detector on labelled data
- Inspect samples where supervised detector/zero-shot disagree 
- Relabel if necessary

4. Adjust the thresholds for higher confidence levels.

If you only want the model's *most* probabilistic boxes, increase the box/text detection threshold levels.

5. Experiment, experiment, experiment!

Since these models have been trained on such a large amount of detection data, you'll be surprised how far they can be pushed.

Try them out on your own data and see how far you can get!

6. Some things won't work.

Notice the last item in the text query below.

Even though we can understand it's in the image, the model fails to capture it in a detection box.

---

The demo below is using LLMDet, a fusion of an LLM model and an object detection model, I'll leave the link in the top comment.

#computervision #llm #objectdetection

1,884
53 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Daniel Bourke

Teaching beginners AI/ML at zerotomastery.io, building nutrify.app & keeptrack.app

2 个月

LLMDet demo: https://huggingface.co/spaces/mrdbourke/LLMDet-demo

赞
回复
17 次回应
Andres Castillo