URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/christoph-molnar_in-machine-learning-we-often-distinguish-activity-7187070296967766017-TAQz
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Christoph Molnar的动态
Christoph Molnar

Author of Interpretable Machine Learning, Modeling Mindsets, and more | christophmolnar.com

1 年

In machine learning, we often distinguish aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty.

Aleatoric is called irreducible error because it's caused by "true" randomness, and epistemic is reducible, caused by lack of information, like model misspecification.

But it's not that simple.

Example: We have different dice and predict outcomes when rolling one.

Our only feature: type of dice.

Let's say per dice, we count the number of sites and give each site equal probability. That's our prediction model.

This model would only have aleatoric uncertainty.

But if we use a model that always "predicts" outcomes 1 to 6, each with probability 1/6, we would have a model that's not as good as it could be.

We say that it has epistemic uncertainty.

But going back to the aleatoric uncertainty model, is it really just aleatoric?

Because if we knew all the physical factors of the dice roll, we might be able to predict it.

It's a lack of knowledge, so don't we have to attribute some of the uncertainty to epistemic uncertainty?

Like a kid asking repeated "Why" questions, further and further reducing aleatoric to epistemic uncertainty would quickly become unproductive.

A better differentiation between epistemic and aleatoric: make it conditional on P(Y|X=x).

When we see our model as a model of P(Y|X=x), we can define aleatoric uncertainty as the conditional variance V(Y|X=x).

The epistemic uncertainty is then simply all the remaining variance.

By conditioning on our features, we can pin down aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty.

If you want to dive deeper into Uncertainty, I can recommend the paper Sources of Uncertainty in Machine Learning -- A Statisticians' View by Gruber et. al 2023

156
22 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Maria Moreno de Castro

Researcher, Data Scientist, Teacher

1 年

Great post, as usual. I would like to