URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/allen-roush-27721011b_i-am-super-proud-to-have-been-cited-by-this-activity-7072984634246000640-HGVQ
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Allen Roush的动态
Allen Roush

Lead AI Researcher - Specialize in LLM, NLP, Argument Mining, and Generative Art

2 年  已编辑

I am super proud to have been cited by this recent paper on Constrained Text Generation: "Sequential Monte Carlo Steering of Large Language Models using Probabilistic Programs"

In particular, their method seems to solve a nagging issue that I ultimately struggled with solving myself, namely the issues that come from LLMs when operating with greedy token level constraints. Quoting the authors from page 2: 

"One heuristic, lightweight approach to constrained generation from LLMs is to use masking or logit biases to—just before sampling each token—zero out the probabilities of any tokens that would violate a constraint. Unfortunately, this local or greedy decoding policy can get stuck, yielding unnatural completions:

PROMPT: “The Fed says”
CONSTRAINT: No word with more than five letters
TOKEN MASKING: “ the cost of a 30-yr fixed mortg...”, “ US infl- ation is back. Are they right?”, “ it will take at least 12 more meet... (read more)”

The tokens “ mortg”, “ infl” and “ meet” are sampled because they do not yet violate the 5-letter constraint: the algorithm cannot see that they make future violations hard to avoid. By contrast, conditioning the LLM on the constraint causes global reallocation of probability mass, yielding a posterior that upweights early tokens which make it easier to satisfy the constraint later. By targeting this posterior, SMC steering avoids greedy dead ends..."

Paper is here: https://lnkd.in/gEHVBR2U

59
4 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Cole Short

Strategy Professor | Advisor | Language as Data

2 年

Very interesting work! I like the idea of the cache to reduce costs--seems especially useful when using a template-based approach.

赞
回复
Enam Hoque

2 年

thanks for sharing - this is very interesting. Selali Adobor what do you think?

赞
回复
Leonard Park

Experienced LegalTech Product Manager and Attorney 