Title: Generic Adversarial Smart Contract Detection with Semantics and   Uncertainty-Aware LLM
Published: 2025-09-23T12:52:05Z
DOI/ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.18934v1
Abstract:
Adversarial smart contracts, mostly on EVM-compatible chains like Ethereum and BSC, are deployed as EVM bytecode to exploit vulnerable smart contracts typically for financial gains. Detecting such malicious contracts at the time of deployment is an important proactive strategy preventing loss from victim contracts. It offers a better cost-benefit than detecting vulnerabilities on diverse potential victims. However, existing works are not generic with limited detection types and effectiveness due to imbalanced samples, while the emerging LLM technologies, which show its potentials in generalization, have two key problems impeding its application in this task: hard digestion of compiled-code inputs, especially those with task-specific logic, and hard assessment of LLMs' certainty in their binary answers, i.e., yes-or-no answers. Therefore, we propose a generic adversarial smart contracts detection framework FinDet, which leverages LLMs with two enhancements addressing above two problems. FinDet takes as input only the EVM-bytecode contracts and identifies adversarial ones among them with high balanced accuracy. The first enhancement extracts concise semantic intentions and high-level behavioral logic from the low-level bytecode inputs, unleashing the LLM reasoning capability restricted by the task input. The second enhancement probes and measures the LLM uncertainty to its multi-round answering to the same query, improving the LLM answering robustness for binary classifications required by the task output. Our comprehensive evaluation shows that FinDet achieves a BAC of 0.9223 and a TPR of 0.8950, significantly outperforming existing baselines. It remains robust under challenging conditions including unseen attack patterns, low-data settings, and feature obfuscation. FinDet detects all 5 public and 20+ unreported adversarial contracts in a 10-day real-world test, confirmed manually.
