URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/vanhoucke_when-i-was-at-stanford-there-was-a-professor-activity-7370087604651819008-Co2b
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Vincent Vanhoucke的动态
Vincent Vanhoucke

Distinguished Engineer, Waymo

1 个月  已编辑

When I was at Stanford, there was a professor of Decision Theory who famously gave multiple choice exams, but asked students to answer them using probabilities.
The grading was then done using the KL divergence between the true answer and your chosen probability distribution.
The consequences were brutal: if you gave 100% probability to one question, and you were wrong, you got negative infinity for that question, and failed the entire class!!
Maybe LLMs should take a page from that playbook:
https://lnkd.in/gqiWjzrf

4,408
110 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Firas Obeid

Sr Data Scientist @ OppFi (NYSE: OPFI) | AI Instructor & Mentor

1 个月

I tuned an ML model lately and its predictions where clustered towards 90% confidence in each model decile. Learned that the choice of parameters caused that issues although no clear signs off overfitting where present. I think they need to focus on the choice of hyperparameters or look into what makes a model overconfident in making the next token prediction.  

赞
回复
David Aponte

Senior Research SDE, Applied Sciences Group @Microsoft

4 周

Brutal

赞
回复
Behnam Mohammadi

Assistant Professor of Quantitative Marketing, UT Dallas

1 个月

if only people would learn how LLMs work before making posts about LLMs

赞
回复
6 次回应
Franklin Carroll

VP of Analytics and Modeling at Kukun

4 周

In one sense, this system is brilliant, but in another, it introduces a kind of terrible unfairness. The more I play around with it, the clearer it becomes that without a curve, it will on net produce grades that are worse than those from standard average-score grading.

Consider a question with four possible answers where you are unsure. In a normal multiple-choice system, you might guess, yielding a 0.25 expected score if correct. If you have an SAT like "wrong answer" penalty than you skip and get zero points. In this KL/log scoring system, “skippi