URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/kishan-panaganti-795a6046_orm-aps-informs2024-activity-7253523966693163009-sxW2
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Kishan Panaganti的动态
Kishan Panaganti

AGI (NLP) Senior Researcher at Tencent

11 个月

I am excited to co-chair an insightful session at the 2024 INFORMS Annual Meeting! 

If you are attending on Sunday, consider joining us for 'Strategic and Distributionally Robust Sequential Decision Making' on Oct 20, 2:15 PM - 3:30 PM in Summit 435.

Session Highlights:

This session delves into the sequential decision-making tasks that are robust in the face of environmental uncertainty and the strategic behaviors of agents. The motivation stems from the increasing prevalence of dynamic environments where traditional decision-making models could fail due to their inability to adapt to changing environments or anticipate the strategic actions of other agents. 

Model-Free Robust $\Phi$-Divergence Reinforcement Learning Using Both Offline and Online Data. Kishan Panaganti (Postdoc at Caltech)

Minimax Optimal and Computationally Efficient Algorithms for Distributionally Robust Offline Reinforcement Learning. Prof. Pan Xu (Assistant Professor at Duke)

Wasserstein Distributionally Robust Policy Learning with Continuous Context. Wenhao Yang (Postdoc at Stanford)

Sample-Efficient Robust Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning in the Face of Environmental Uncertainty. Laixi Shi (Postdoc at Caltech and Co-chair for this session)

Networking Opportunity:

I'm eager to connect with attendees interested in the broad field of decision-making research under the #ORM and #APS umbrella. I am on the job market applying for:
Tenure-track faculty positions in computer science, electrical and computer engineering, industrial engineering and operations research, and similar engineering and business school departments.
Research Scientist roles in industrial research groups in the field of general machine learning, focusing on decision-making under uncertainty, game theoretic decision-making, and learning under epistemic and aleatoric uncertainties.

 

#INFORM