URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/thomasjubault_deep-learning-data-ramping-and-uncertainty-activity-7108407452055793664-jaUQ
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Thomas Jubault, PhD, MBA的动态
Thomas Jubault, PhD, MBA

Advisor - Private Markets @ PSP Investments | Machine Learning and Data Analysis lecturer @ HEC Montréal

2 年

I'm thrilled to announce the publication of a scientific article that I had the privilege of co-authoring when I was working at NeuroRx. 

The title:
"Deep learning, data ramping, and uncertainty estimation for detecting artifacts in large, imbalanced databases of MRI images"

The goal:
Using AI (deep learning) to assist with automatic Quality Control (QC) of incoming MRI data, ensuring accuracy, consistency, and reliability of analyses performed down the line.

It is a typical challenge for companies to effectively leverage the immense amount of data they have accumulated for training.  We were able to circumvent this obstacle via a fine understanding of how data was stored, and how this could be translated to tagging "de-facto".

The article covers many others aspects of the development and real life implementation of this type of solution in a highly complex environment. 

This achievement would not have been possible without the relentless efforts and collaboration of a brilliant team and I would like to extend my gratitude to Haz-Edine Assemlal and Ricardo Pizarro.

https://lnkd.in/eGx3KRRg

Deep learning, data ramping, and uncertainty estimation for detecting artifacts in large, imbalanced databases of MRI images
sciencedirect.com
71
3 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Lucie Lauzon

Spécialiste d'applications en IRM

2 年

Félicitations Thomas!

赞
回复
Adam Schwarz

Global Head of Imaging & Digital, Pharmaceutical Diagnostics, GE HealthCare

2 年

Excellent, Thomas! This is a really important topic. 
Some of the most important potential impacts of new AI/ML approaches are in these more "nuts and bolts" areas of imaging, which in turn will be key enablers for downstream analyses/reads (whether AI-based or not). 

p.s., 26 Figures... is that some kind of record? ;-)

赞
回复
3 次回应
Dani