URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/agus-sudjianto-76519619_model-diagnostics-prediction-uncertainty-activity-7126549617046929409-qyZY
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Agus Sudjianto的动态
Agus Sudjianto

A geek who can speak: Co-creator of PiML and MoDeVa, SVP Risk & Technology H2O.ai, Retired EVP-Head of Wells Fargo MRM

1 年

Understanding model prediction uncertainty is critical in model validation prior to model deployment. PiML uses conformal prediction and uncertainty slicing to identify weak regions in the model.

Aijun Zhang

Head of Machine Learning and Validation Engineering at Wells Fargo

1 年

Here's a new PiML tutorial about quantification of prediction uncertainty for a pre-trained machine learning model. We take a deep dive into conformal prediction for regression models, introduce several ways of running split conformal prediction, and demonstrate how to detect unreliable regions via PiML reliability testing.

Agus Sudjianto Valeriy Manokhin, PhD, MBA, CQF Patrick Hall Parul Pandey
#ConformalPrediction #ReliabilityTest #ModelDiagnostics #machinelearning #PiML
https://lnkd.in/gaWhjcRu

Model Diagnostics: Prediction Uncertainty
piml.medium.com
138
8 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Eduardo Canabarro

Engineer, Financial Economist

1 年

Agus Sudjianto The future is unpredictable, especially the extreme events. Any model that uses past data implicitly assumes that the future will be like the past. And we know it will not !
In Physics, the laws of nature are permanent. In Economics, the context is ALWAYS changing. And it especially affects the probabilities and nature of the extreme events.
So … be careful with models … they may look neat and intuitive, but they are mostly wrong for extreme risks and capital estimation.
After so much experience since 1980s we see it very clearly today.

赞
回复
4 次回应
Patrick Hall

Machine Learning, AI & Risk Management

1 年

Variance is real. A model with 0.8888 AUC isn’t “better” than a model with 0.8887 AUC. (And not just because of variance, but we could start there …). Thanks Agus and team for making tools that help with real-world problems.

赞
回复
8 次回应
Jack Xu

Mod