URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/vzavala_machinelearning-dynamics-datascience-activity-7350548255060946944-lCDu
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Victor M Zavala的动态
Victor M Zavala

Baldovin-DaPra Professor at University of Wisconsin-Madison

2 个月  已编辑

Really excited to share our new preprint reporting a physics-constrained neural ODE framework for learning dynamics of microbial communities from experimental data. 

Our model, which we call Neural Species Mediator (NSM), embeds a neural network model within a physics structure/skeleton given by a consumer resource model (CRM). We also implement a variational inference framework to quantify uncertainty of model predictions. Extensive validations were conducted with experimental data.

Several important things that we learned during this research are the following:

- Pure neural ordinary differential equation models are difficult to train because of numerical instabilties. The addition of rather simple physics constraints helps alleviate some of these instabilities. 

- The addition of physics helps obtain uncertainty information that is more consistent. This is critical for experimental design procedures. Variational inference is a powerful uncertainty quantification framework because it can be directly formulated as an optimization problem. 

- It is absolutely not obvious to determine what is the best strategy to combine physics and neural ODEs; we experimented with many different variants and it ultimately boils down to a trade off between model flexibility and interpretability. 

This work is based on a collaboration with the group of Prof. Ophelia Venturelli and is the result of the heroic efforts of the brilliant Jaron Thompson and Bryce Connors. 

Preprint: https://lnkd.in/edgKRc8k

#machinelearning #dynamics #datascience

306
11 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Moritz von Stosch

Senior Scientific Advisor at DataHow

2 个月

Very interesting work, very much in line with all the work that has been performed on hybrid (semi-parametric) modeling and the different degrees on hybridization. Might be worth to contrast your findings to 