URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/michael-shields-25740921_physics-uncertainty-machinelearning-activity-7096838727800426496-Ww00
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Michael Shields的动态
Michael Shields

Professor at The Johns Hopkins University; President and Principal Engineer at UQuant, Inc.

2 年

Postdoc Opening in Uncertainty Quantification & Scientific Machine Learning

We currently have two open positions for postdocs at the intersection of uncertainty quantification (UQ) and scientific machine learning (SciML) at The Johns Hopkins University. The project is a collaboration among Professors Michael Shields, yannis Kevrekidis, Lori Graham-Brady, Tamer Zaki, Dimitris Giovanis, and Somdatta Goswami, Ph.D. Goswami spanning multiple scientific disciplines. The work will focus on the development of novel #physics and #uncertainty informed operator learning methods that are at the cutting edge of #machinelearning  for physical systems. Recent graduates with an expertise in the following areas are highly encouraged to apply:
·       Any branch of SciML including, but not limited to physics informed #neuralnetworks and neural operators
·       #uq for complex, high-dimensional systems
·       #bayesian #neuralnetworks, Variational Inference, and other #inference methods on high-dimensional systems
·       Dimension reduction, including latent space or manifold learning

The postdoc will work in a highly #collaborative environment and will be expected to work well with a team that includes mentoring PhD students, collaborating with other #postdocs, and working with multiple faculty members. The successful candidates must be highly self-motivated, with the ability to work both within the team and independently. Each successful candidate will be assigned a primary and secondary mentor from the list of faculty above based on their expertise, interests, and skill set. A Ph.D. in a related #engineering field, #physics, #appliedmathematics, or #computerscience is required. The positions are open effective immediately. Women and members of under-represented groups in STEM fields are strongly encou