URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/richardseiersen_ciso-probability-risk-activity-7328955509435183106-1H0j
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Richard Seiersen的动态
Richard Seiersen

Chief Risk Technology Officer @ Qualys | xCISO: Twilio, GE, LendingClub | Author: How To Measure Anything In Cybersecurity Risk etc...

4 个月  已编辑

A quantitatively curious CISO recently asked, "Can you really use probability in cybersecurity risk management?"

My zen koan-like answer, "The most important questions of life are indeed, for the most part, really only problems of probability." – Laplace

To do what he asks, we need to first assess what the business stands to lose. aka "Value At Risk."

And we need to understand what causes losses – the threats.

With that, you can start to design an approach to determining the probability of a myriad of loss scenarios. 

Realize, if I have to have perfect information about every possible future loss...

And I need to map every path every villain can take to steal my treasure...

I will never begin.  

So, start with the known-known risk scenarios.

Or the negligent-not-to-know scenarios. 

Ransomware isn't a bad choice. This infographic is related to that. 

When generating baseline (starter) probabilities, I start with public information about the Fortune 1000 or 500. It's great for baselines.

(There is an example of this approach using the  F500 in our book 'How To Measure Anything In Cybersecurity Risk')

You must be comfortable with uncertainty (many aren't)

You must also understand the word "probability" (many don't)

You can also experiment with getting at baseline probabilities using Perplexity or other LLM-based solutions.  

Please just mind your prompts, mind your assumptions, and mind its output.

The infographic here is explanatory. It's high-level. 

Note the mapping to scores?  Not to be overly handwavy...but when you have access to a massive petabyte-scale data lake, you have certain advantages...

That being said, there is no perfect "actuarial table" mapping of posture data and scores to probability. (FWIW, I was a Chief