URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/babakhodjat_introducing-the-semantic-density-demoa-activity-7321335999546974208-Wc3N
Date: 2025-10-08
Author: Unknown

跳到主要内容
领英
热门内容
会员
领英学习
职位
游戏
下载 APP
马上加入
登录
Babak Hodjat的动态
Babak Hodjat

Chief AI Officer at Cognizant

5 个月

Groundbreaking work on LLM uncertainty estimation coming out of Cognizant AI Lab. With this technology, we can now set absolute uncertainty thresholds on LLM outputs, not just on knowledge extraction from an LLM's world model, but more importantly, on its reasoning, allowing for case-by-case fallback to rules-based or triggering human interventions in a much more principled way. An important step towards making multi-agent systems safer and more consistent. Follow the link and try the demo out! 

Risto Miikkulainen

VP of AI Research at Cognizant AI Lab

5 个月

We've been working on a method to evaluate confidence in LLM responses based on Semantic Density, i.e. how prominent the responses are in the semantic space. You can now try it out through an interactive demo where you ask a question and the system evaluates the confidence of various LLM-generated answers.  It is accessible at the end of this blog post:
https://lnkd.in/dHZxKi4v

Introducing the Semantic Density demo — a smarter way to evaluate LLM confidence
medium.com
159
3 条评论
赞
评论
分享
Chandra Dasika

5 个月

Quite excited about this. 

赞
回复
Richard Sternin

AI-Trained Since 2014 | ATS Author | Director of Talent | Hands-on Recruiting IC | Entrepreneur (with one exit)

5 个月

I have a question. I was reading the medium article and went to the demo, and just want to make sure I understand - it's the same LLM being asked the question multiple times, and the semantic similarity between each and the other four responses is what generates the score?  Not across multiple LLMs?  

赞
回复
查看更多评论

要查看或添加评论，请登录

15,548 位关注者

448 则动态
 10 篇文章
查看档案  关注
更多文章
Thousands of Agents – a Step Towards a Worldwide Agentic Web
Babak Hodjat  2 个月
Introducing our AI Lab’s new website
Babak Hodjat  3 个月
Using Agents to Monitor Agents
Babak Hodjat  4 个月
探索相关领域
Recent Breakthroughs in AI Technology
Trends in AI and LLM Development
L