Source: Reddit/MachineLearning
URL: https://reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/ttm00m/d_the_joy_of_finding_things_out_essay/
Title: [D] The Joy of Finding Things Out (essay)

Content:
Currently I’m trying to figure out if I want to stay in academia or not. My decision hinges on what makes doing science enjoyable. My current understanding is in order for science to be enjoyable, there has to be an element of surprise. A tension that builds. And release of that tension. This is most obvious in theoretical works where the scientist makes a prediction, and later empirical data verifies that prediction. Excitement. Joy. Wonder. In experimental work, surprise can take the form of not knowing how the experiment will turn out. Once you get the result of the experiment, it'll disambiguate competing theories you had in your mind or elucidate a new theory. "Everything clicks" or at the very least you'll be put into a fever trying to integrate the new surprising data with previous theories to try and reach a "everything clicks" moment. That moment is the bliss. The joy.

I think realistically the amount of joy you feel in doing science is proportional to the amount of uncertainty and hence surprise. The problem I've had with doing science is most projects are so incremental that you know what's going to happen a priori. I've only had experience with experimental works but I don't actually think there's a difference here with theoretical. Both are equally (un)likely to cause scientific joy. The problem with science I've done is that we knew what the experimental outcome would be from the start. We did the experiment only to verify it. That's not exciting. Now of course you can't be fully surprised by the results of experiment. That's what prior knowledge or theories are for. They explain some of the variance of the experiment you're conducting. But there are experiments where you really don't know what's going to happen, or you have two strong competing hypotheses. For example in emergent deep learning systems sometimes you really don't know what's going to happen. For example, experiments to disambiguate RNA vs DNA as carriers of genetic information through generations. Now, I think this taste for surprise is universal. Basically I think what defines a good work in the scientific community, what makes a fellow scientist reader excited when they read a piece of scientific work is precisely the same surprise. There are many other confounding factors but surprise is universal. So by consequence optimizing for surprise is precisely the definition of good scientific taste. Good scientific works are ones that cause a lot of surprise.

"The joy of finding things out" - Richard Feynman. Surprise is implicit in Feynman's statement. It's the "joy of finding things out" not the "joy of verifying things you almost certainly knew already". People "find things out" when those things are hidden or opaque to them before.

The joy of ignorance. The problem with doing science is you need to be on the bleeding edge. And in order to be on the bleeding edge you need to learn a lot about the narrow subfield you're working in. When you do all this learning, you become less and less ignorant and things surprise you less and less. You build a better internal model of the science. It becomes hard to ask scientific questions that are both surprising and useful. Useful meaning it adds onto the bleeding edge of the field. There is sort of a “hack” here which is to work on fields that are in their infancy. There are plenty of surprising scientific questions and they are also useful because not many people have thought about them before. (it’s not really a hack because it’s probably the right thing to do).

I used to think I hated doing engineering and that was the problem I had with science. If only I were doing theory, I'd be much happier. Engineering is incremental. But I think you're equally capable of feeling surprise in works that require engineering. What you build can surprise you. It can have features or provide insights that you've never seen before. And it's apples to pears to compare this scientific surprise or joy against one from having your theoretical predictions verified by experimental data.

It's important to note that one can feel the joy of finding things out without being a scientist. You can find joy in finding things out in most aspects of your life. You might not be the first person to find it out. It's definitely not going to contribute to the bleeding edge of humanity's knowledge. But it can be (almost?) equally as enjoyable. Ok, contributing to humanity's bleeding edge knowledge is probably doubly rewarding. But a personal science gets you most of the way there. And it's almost certainly easier to find these moments of joy. There is an explicit difference between doing a private science (just finding things out for yourself) and a public one (contributing to humanity’s knowledge). When doing public science ideas can't simply "come from within". You're additionally constrained by what already exists and what's currently possible given the state of technology. This is not unlike startups. You can entertain a private startup, which is more like a hobby. But if you want a public startup (what people usually think of as startups) that serves real people then you're additionally constrained by businesses that already exist in the world and what's possible given current technology.

The reader-actor gap. I think many more people enjoy reading science than they like doing it themselves. And the reason is obvious given our discussion thus far. When you read scientific works, you're choosing from the entirety of human contribution through time and space. Obviously you'll find works that surprise you, even if your knowledge is bleeding edge. But most people are incapable of (at least consistently) finding and then executing on problems that cause surprise. I think this is why I've observed a critic-actor gap in most young scientists. They're quick to critique a work for being incremental or not very surprising but they also self censor this type of criticism when thinking or talking about their own work. Or at least they don't seem to be softening their critiques of others' work given the context of how difficult it is to produce surprising work generally.

Good scientific problems are not handed to us on a plate. We have to search for them explicitly.  It’s a little bit weird that there is so little wisdom on finding the right topic to study. Maybe I’m an anomaly and I’m very picky. But I’ve found that most papers people write are not all that surprising. Once in a while you hear snippets of wisdom from experienced researchers like “find something at the intersection of what you care about and what the world cares about”. Ok, but how do I do that? It’s weird there’s no instruction manual on finding good scientific problems when the ability to do so is so crucial to your enjoyment and success as a scientist. I have a theory that most people in academia are capable of doing the highest quality of work in their field. At least mechanically, they can write the code, do the math or build the damn thing given enough time. (I may be biased here because machine learning has had a huge surge of highly intelligent people in recent years). But the main differentiator between the best and the rest is whether they can find the good scientific questions. Finding good questions has a double advantage. First, you’re extremely motivated to work on it. You spend twice the time as the next person, you work weekends and holidays, because the problem is just that interesting to you. And when you’re lucky the problem is that interesting to others as well so your work is recognized. In other words you’ll do good work and it won’t feel hard doing it because you’ll be intrinsically motivated. Of course this is an ideal. Most problems are not THAT interesting. But it’s weird that this single dimension of determinant of success is so little talked about or taught. Where are the handbooks of heuristics for finding good scientific problems for you to work on? It really feels like the wild west where young and naive scientists are released upon the world. Some of them attach themselves to good mentors who provide snippets of instruction from time to time. But otherwise most are left to their own devices, expected to formulate a theory of good scientific taste - which by the way I think is a hugely intractable problem. It’s not easy to develop good taste and the right meta-processes to look in the right places for the right problems to work on. This is something that’s much easier learned on a society or at least group level.

I think people's sensitivity to surprise vary. Their tastes for science varies. It's easier for some people to find scientific joy in some things. Ultimately whether you should pursue a PhD depends on whether you can capture this joy of finding things out.

P.S. feedback and advice is very much welcomed!

Comments:
- Thanks for sharing your thoughts. This is a nice essay, and I recommend that you keep sharing your thoughts with the world. Seems like you have a good mind for it, and that you can share your thoughts clearly. I’m in my first year of a PhD, and I’ve been surprised at how seldom thoughts are clearly explained. 

Is it possible that you enjoy sharing your insights with the world, and this could also be what drives your motivation for research? IMHO, science is just about showing the world why your research matters as it is finding something that matters. 

So what matters to you personally, and what do you think the world should care about? If you can pin that down, the world doesn’t necessarily need to care about it now. Through your work, you can convince the world to care.
- Thanks, you're echoing a lot of my thoughts. Indeed, to do truly creative work you need a lot of time to think, and no pressure. That's why Peter Higgs said that in today's academic environment he would have never had the calm and peace to come up with the idea of the Higgs Boson.

The main thing that has always baffled me is that academics try to do projects of which the outcome is already known. That they "plan" to have a paper by the next deadline. You cannot plan to find a surprise. That's not how surprises work. 

However, you can increase the chance of a surprise by reading a lot with the aim of gaining deep understanding of a topic, and doing a lot of "active thinking". I define active thinking as an inner dialogue where you attempt to understand or solve a problem. Having a whiteboard helps. However, that takes time and effort and will not guarantee you a typical CVPR paper soon. That's why no-one seems to do it? I would go so far and say that it doesn't even occur to most people that a different way of working on problems is possible.
- Try really hard not to lose that mentality.  Unfortunately, like everything else these days science is driven by money, academically as well as industrial science. And sadly it is so strongly pushed for fast results that the simple joy of investigation is, for the most part, all but dead
- The machine learning field has gone through some strange distortions. It's over-saturated. This creates a rat race that far too many people still decide to participate in.

Take a break from research. Gather some helpful skills like software development and data engineering that will help you scale out the ideas of your future self. You'll be ten times more productive when the time comes again for research.

While you work, take some time to read textbooks and very good papers. Ask your own questions. Learn things again. Try to prove things yourself. Try to modify the path towards a solution and see what happens.

Take some time to play with a few side projects and develop your taste under no pressure.

Get paid well all the while and develop friends and new perspectives.

When the time is right, return to research with helpful skills for testing your ideas, all of your ML fundamentals in place, an acquired taste, and a burning desire to get back into your scientific explorations.

Some of the greatest researchers I know followed this formula, in one way or another, often not intentionally.
- There is no algorithm for identifying good research problems.  
Also, if there were, academia largely wouldn't care.

  
Most researchers work on what's trendy, and incremental, because they have to publish papers. Research that is actually investigating something truly novel, has a much higher risk of being rejected, because by its very nature it will be difficult for reviewers to wrap their head around it. To pass through review, research has been optimized to be trivial and recognizable. To get citations and retweets, it's been optimized to be marketable, filled with buzzwords and superficial. Almost all of it is useless. 

One way to do high quality research is to find a tiny niche where 5 other people in the world understand its significance. Another is to combine ideas and research questions from two fairly distant fields and see if anything good comes out. That's a pretty good option but it requires you to become, or work with, an expert in both fields.
- Maybe your perspective comes from working in engineering and more applied fields. Working in the basic sciences is full of surprises, too many surprises. You never know if your experiments will work - usually, they don't the first time around. Huge unanswered questions abound. How does the brain work? What are potential sources of future pandemics? Where will we be in a year with regard to COVID?

Yes, the key is asking the right questions. It's really hard to do. We probably don't address this because few of us feel confident that we're particularly good at it. For all the success stories out there, there are many failures behind the scenes. You have to ask questions that are technically and scientifically feasible. They have to be problems that can be answered with modest financial resources, where you can show progress within a year or two to keep the bosses happy, within the limits of your team, and where you can distance yourself from potential competitors.
