Source: Reddit/MachineLearning
URL: https://reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/l6x8jq/dactive_learningconfused_about_retrieving/
Title: [D](Active Learning)Confused about retrieving uncertainty scores from an object detection model

Content:
Hello, I have been trying to figure out how to retrieve informativeness or uncertainty scores from images in an object detection model.

Getting a uncertainty score from an image in classification model is relatively straight forward, but i'm confused about getting the score from an object detection model.

The most straightforward way seems to be training a separate classification model on cropped images of objects from a object detection model and average the uncertainty scores in an image depending on the number of object in the picture.

But this seems like a lot of work and I was wondering if I could somehow derive these scores within the object detection model without training a separate classification model.

thanks in advance.

Comments:
- What model are you using? What are you going to use the uncertainty score for?
- SDD models and Faster RCNN Models. 

I am using uncertainty scores in to pick out the most informative pictures for active learning where I use the least images to bring up performance of the model as fast as possible.
- What is the problem with your classifier, misclassifies objects or doesn't find the objects?  
If you're not finding objects, and you're looking to sort by objectness score ascending to find the hardest images, you're going to be wading through a lot of images per datapoint you get.
- I think we are speaking about different things. 

It's not that the models have problems, but I want to be able to derive informativeness of a picture directly from the object detection model without having to use a separate image classifier.
- I don't think we are. So how would you do this in a classification model?
- in a classification task, the image only has one object or task. 

For example, 

When classifying a picture in a 3 class dataset(cat, dog, rabbit),
each prediction on picture will have a softmax or confidence score for each category. 

picture 1: 
cat: 90% dog: 5% rabbit 5%

picture 2:
cat 45%  dog:35%  rabbit:25% 

I would use some sort of uncertainty score and most likely pick the second picture as the more uncertain or more 'informative' picture. 

But in an object detection model, there is only an one score for each of the the object detected which makes it hard to calculate uncertainty scores. 

Basically I want to get the softmax score for the each bounding box. 

Does this mean I have to go diggin within the model architecture?
- > Does this mean I have to go diggin within the model architecture?

Yes, that's exactly what you need to be doing. It shouldn't be that hard though. Each bounding box will usually have some sort of objectness score and a class score. The only difference from a classifier is that you need to choose a way to aggregate the score you've chosen per image.
