Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/syooxt/a_struggle_of_mine/
Title: A struggle of mine

Content:
I love science, all of it, but there is nothing that excites me more than wildlife and the concept of working outdoors. I have done work with mass Audubon controlling invasive weeds and I have worked on a farm and I couldn’t get enough of the fresh air and bug bites and sunburn, it was where I felt comfortable but it was not paying the bills. I am now working in a lab as a chemist, on a six month contract, conjugating particles for covid tests. This job pays very well and I’m learning cool things but it’s like I have a Call of the wild in the back of my head every day. 

I am here seeking advice, what jobs exist with a good mix of lab and field work, I have thought about being a park ranger, wildlife biologist, GIS tech or any type of technician that might have a mix of lab and fieldwork. I have thought about law enforcement in relation to wildlife and biology. I do enjoy lab work but I feel like I need to be under the sky and have fresh air sometimes if not all the time. Is it stupid to walk away from so much money? I feel like the corporate world will eventually suffocate me. 

To summarize my work experiences: 
- farm hand (vegetation with a wide variety) 
- invasive species tech (great marsh environment, GIS, vegetation monitoring) 
- parking enforcement (low level law enforcement) 
- Montessori science teacher 
- chemist (antibody and particle conjugation) 

I hold a BS in biology and I am three classes away from also having a BS in Env Science 

Thank you for any advice.

Comments:
- What I’ve learned is simply put: *it’s only money*. 

I’m a labourer, I’ve worked labour my entire life. I just recently had a run at the corporate world, and our interests are very very similar. 

You *need* your sanity more than the money. Get out there and find that good balance job, and fuck the money. 

Money isn’t going to make you feel good about your personal journey 20 years from now. Money makes living *easier*, but, it’s not our purpose in life, especially for people like us. 

Spend what short time you have on this earth spending it on things and with people that truly make you happy. 

The goal is to work to live, not to live for work. 

If I had to give you any advice? Get on with your local logging company. My ex girlfriend’s sister works with wildlife management in BC Canada for a logging company. She makes hefty cash for what she actually ends up doing. 

You get all of the stuff you have the brain for, ontop of the freedom to travel around the wild. Added bonus, you’d be the guy that gets to say “nah, this place is protected. There’s an endangered slug in that tree, you have to cut at least 100km that way” 

*points in random fuckoff direction* 

And they’ll *actually* listen to you. All around the board, it’s a good way to try and make small changes in your own immediate ecosystems without a devastating impact. 

With your background, dimes to donuts says you might be able to just transfer over into the field with minimal schooling or coursework.
- I'm a wildlife biologist that works for University of Montana and MFWP and I'll relay my experiences with you.

Work summary is...

USAF after high school

BS in wildlife biology (Masters in work)

Currently working in two different labs (Quantitative ecology and Avian science)

Honestly, I get paid peanuts but I love my job. I get paid like half of what I was making when I was in the military. It's just barley enough for me to live on, and without the benefits it would be rough but like u/PaleCrestedWolf said, its only money. I get the enjoyment of working outdoors and a warm fuzzy feeling after work everyday from doing something that I truly enjoy and feel like I am making a difference. I would have to say my time is spent roughly 30/70 between an office and being outdoors gathering field data. With that said, most academic type jobs seem to hover around 20-60% outdoor work. Just really depends on what your doing.

From my own experiences and working with/meeting other professionals in the field.

Wildlife biologists jobs (Government and academic ones like mine) are a lot of both lab and outdoor work. It can vary, and be quite seasonal. I have a friend spending his summers in Alaska studying eagle populations, but spending his winters working on the info he gathered in the field. Same story with another friend that studies amphibians. The state/federal jobs appear to have a lot more outdoor time than us academic nerds, but that might be just around here. 

Park ranger is a great gig (My uncle was one and he loved it). Lots of time spent outdoors, pretty varied in what your actually going to be doing day to day. Don't do a ton of "science" work, more outreach/education oriented. Also expect some menial tasks. From what I have seen, position duties seem to vary between parks and within parks, i.e. what you will be doing every day could vary, read the job listing carefully. Pay is meh.

Game Wardens vary A LOT in their duties from state to state. Some states (Like Wyoming and Montana) they are basically wildlife field biologists, that also happen to have some additional law enforcement duties. Other states, they appear to be more focused on the law enforcement aspect, doing very little science work of any kind. Pay is decent, but they are super competitive.

The corporate wildlife/biology field is a good compromise of money and field work. I'm talking about biologists that work for mining, oil/gas, logging and military contractors. I'm calling it a compromise because it is kinda like selling out to the "bad guys". But you do have a very real on the ground positive impact, if you so desire. Pay is good.

Refugee/wildlife preserve management jobs are almost exclusively outdoors and your doing lots of field science work. Pay is meh.

I know a couple of people that went on to do habitat restoration work. It looks pretty labor intensive but you are outdoors a lot. Pay is meh.

I also encounter folks with rangeland jobs. I'm not super familiar with what exactly they do all day, I guess check out BLM job listings. Pay is meh.

Hope my brief overview is helpful. Cheers!
- If you want to pay the bills and work with wildlife. Continue your education in entomology, that’s were the money is in wildlife biology.
- Have you considered doing anything in agriculture? 

I'm like you. I love biology, but I want to be outside. So I study crop science instead of biology. You could also do animals if you prefer them to plants. I however, can't offer much advice in that regard. 

Depending on the job of course, it generally pays okay. The real money makers are people who work for seed companies as representatives, and deal with people like me.

 I work for the Texas A&M extension service, with a bachelors you could be a technician for a specialist. They get paid mediocre, $35-45,000 or so for newbies. If you get a masters (everyone I know, myself included, who works for the A&M extension service gets their tuition for graduate degrees paid by A&M (and for further reference, I do not go to school at A&M... they pay my bill directly to the university that I do attend)) the pay gets bumped up way higher. The technician I work with is at $36k right now, when she finishes her masters she's getting bumped up to $60k. Its a pretty relaxed environment people wise, anyone I've talked to from any station has been a pleasure. Every state has an extension service. Certainly everything I just talked about varies by location, but it doesn't hurt to see what it's like in your area (you should be able to find their website easy enough. Just google your state's land grant university, followed by "extension" and I'd bet that will pull it up). 

 You could also be a lower level scientist of sorts for big companies (think BASF, Bayer, Corteva). You'd get to spend plenty of time outside in the summer. 

I believe I saw someone else suggest it, but entomology is also a good route (if you're okay with insects). Everyone needs a good entomologist from time to time. There can be a lot of great opportunities with entomology. Pests (and disease if you're interested in pathology) cost the country obscene amounts of money in yield loss every year. 

Of anything crop science related, the most lab work you'd see \*probably\* would be through pathology. Pretty much everyone does lab work from time to time, but for some of us it can be extremely rare to be in a lab. The last time I did lab work was during my masters, to help a pathologist as a personal favor. 

Anyway. I wish you the best. There are plenty of opportunities in ag, if it's something that interests you.
- I needed to hear this, thank you so much. I will definitely investigate logging. I do need my sanity and that is something I feel like I will lose in a lifetime of corporate work.
- This is an extremely helpful resource for me and the summaries you have provided are excellent. So great full you have taken the time to write.
- Sorry, don't piggy back off the good outline above or have more for you to read, but I wanted to add a few more details I thought might help you out.

I work for MFWP. I tend to get a good mix of field, lab, and office work on a regular basis. What I do is wildlife health based, but with your background, pursuing areas with the same general concept of what I do that are more habitat or vegetation based would be a good fit for what you are looking for I think. 

Rangeland technicians do a lot of vegetation and entomology studies, collecting samples throughout the growing season and lab work during the winter. The best opportunity with your experiences, would be to start in a Livestock or Agriculture department. Since you have a good background in vegetation AND lab work, you could very well get a lab tech position with a Department of Livestock or Agriculture and be picked to do field collections as well. DOL and DOA have good funding so pay is not bad compared to wildlife organizations (funding tends to disperse quickly for us).

BLM does quite a lot of wildlife work as well as vegetation work. Usually its avian, mesocarnivor, or reptilian related if you enjoy any of those areas. And it's almost a guaranteed higher if you have experience doing AIM plots. Being federal, they pay decently. They also tend to be quick to push you up the ladder. One or two field seasons can put you up two GS levels.

Forest Service is a good place to get into as well. Depending on what area you want to be in, you could be doing a lot of land management work or resource management even. 

I, personally, have never seen a MT game warden do scientific work, but they do tend to show up when handling wildlife is involved. If you really like the actual biology part of your job, wildlife law enforcement might not be the right path. I thought about it a lot too, but I love the science too much.

My final piece of advise: unless you are looking for a experience in a new field, don't let the experience outweigh your livelihood. From what you've said, you good work experience to be paid a decent amount and should not let anyone take advantage of you. You shouldn't let yourself struggle for a job, no matter how exciting it is. 

Hope that helps and good luck!
- Oh could you please expand on that?? I actually plan to completely focus on entomology once I am in Uni, and I don‘t see the potential you see yet and would love some words of encouragement :)
- There is also the option of your finding the best parts of your various jobs, and mash them all into one business under your own name. (If you do, lemme know and I’ll work with you cause this shit sucks) 

But, above all else, and to everyone who sees this. 

*it’s only money*. 

If you’re questioning yourself, *listen*. Then act accordingly.
- Bugs cause millions possible even billion of dollar in damages to crops, homes, and human populations by spreading diseases. So there’s always a demand for entomologies who study ways to mitigate this damage. If you can save millions you are worth money in the eyes of a company.
- Hmm opening a business isn’t a bad idea. I have thought about it before, would probably have to be a non profit or eco tourism. Def worth thinking about.
- That sounds really reasonable!
