Source: Reddit/bioinformatics
URL: https://reddit.com/r/bioinformatics/comments/18i6ikt/bioinformatics_master_thesis_on_protein_structure/
Title: Bioinformatics Master Thesis on Protein Structure

Content:
Hi everyone. At the moment I am starting my final year of my masters in Bioinformatics. I'm starting my thesis, and I'm struggling.

My work aims to develop a machine learning based framework to classify proteins based on their structural features. Since there isn't much information about this topic I'm feeling very overwhelmed.

I've been reading some articles of geometric-based deep learning, like dMASIF, and graph-based embeddings, but I can't really understand how to use it in my work.

Any suggestions?

Comments:
- Start with Foldseek. You can also try looking at language models (ESM or ProstT5) with structural embedding.
- Hey, I can’t help you in the specifics as I don’t know but because you said you feel overwhelmed.

I think it would help a lot if you defined very clearly what is the goal for top marks. What is the output that you would be proud of. Then define what would be something acceptable ( I am not saying bad, emphasis on acceptable). And then make a timeline for the first option. Good luck! It can get frustrating but you lol get through it
- First step would be to clearly define your research objective. You want to classify proteins in terms of what? Family? Function? Structure? Localization?

Then, you want to review the state of the art. How accurate are existing models (you will want to outperform those)? What machine learning algorithms and representations are they built around?

How familiar are you with deep learning?

If you are not very familiar, the first step would be to familiarize yourself with core concepts: general machine learning methodology, neural networks, self-attention, graph neural nets, transformers (more relevant for sequence-based tasks, but conceptually important), etc.

You will struggle reading those applied papers if you don't have a basic understanding of deep learning topics.
