Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/1wnsrr/biology_technicians_of_reddit/
Title: Biology Technicians of Reddit

Content:
So I'm in dire need of some advice to those who are in either work as laboratory technicians or veterinary laboratory technicians

I live in Orlando, Florida. I graduated from UCF with a degree in Biotechnology and Bio-Medical Sciences. I graduated with no research experience, but as of 2 months ago began working (volunteering) in a research lab under one of my old biochemistry professors to actually learn to how use the knowledge I picked up from my two degrees. I've also decided that I'd like to pursue a PhD program, finally, as my haphazard time at UCF I "chased" the idea of going to medical school though being honest with myself led to the conclusion that that's a field I never wanted to go into to begin with. As much as I enjoy it, I could never see myself doing medicine. Anyway, I've been working odd jobs here and there, landed a serving job which I make okay money for the few hours I work (less than 20). As of a few days ago, a posting on craigslist for a Veterinary Laboratory technician (Company is National Bio Vet Laboratory) came up under the biotechnology  section. The guy asked for people with experience but was willing to take people with a biology degree/background, which is what I had. I go to the interview (which is a "lab" in a warehouse effectively, with equipment somewhat strewn about), get the job, and started today. In fact, I'm here now. As I'm learning more about what I'd be doing, I ask my trainer (a girl who's been workin here for like 3 years), what the transferability of these skills are. She replied with, " I've tried to get similar jobs in the same field for higher pay (this guy pays $11/hr when the average is about $15), but they always ask for a pay decrease, beacuse she too doesn't have ASCP certification and didn't go to school for this position. We're limited to literally just running analysys tests(urinalysis, thyroid tests, CBC, fecal tests, iophase (sp)?. We use equpiment like the cell-dyne 3500, olympus AU640e, Immulite 1000 and stuff but dont' do any direct work with animals. We do cell counting under microscopes and stuff, are resposible for troubleshooting the machines...I don't know what other information to give you. I literally started 4 hours ago but this is most of what I've been told. 

I just kind of don't want to waste my time here. My idea was that in having these skills I'd be able to work in this field while going to school, but she hasn't been able to land a better job despite having accumulated 3 years of experience here. So...anyone in similar situations or with more knowledge about this field than I care to shine a light on what kind of expectations I can have? Thanks. 

Comments:
- What do you mean "work in this field while going to school"? You mean as a job to do in addition to PhD coursework? Why? They pay you and waive tuition so you don't have to worry about it.
- Diagnostic work pays shit; it's just a fact of life.  As for the PhD, you might want to reconsider that.  9/10 people I know with recent PhD's are permanently working in post-doc positions or lie about having having a doctorate while applying for technician positions.  

Keep volunteering in the research lab. The experience you gain and the contacts you make will be priceless.
