Source: Reddit/datascience
URL: https://reddit.com/r/datascience/comments/1c1v5vc/career_roadmap_and_advice_please_transitioning/
Title: Career roadmap and advice please. Transitioning from Academia to DS.

Content:
Hello!

I'm 46, Masters in Operations Research,  BS in Pure and Applied Math. I have been focusing on an academic career for a while, but lost my full-time professorship because I had problems with grading and meeting deadlines (I suffer from clinical depression). I am currently an adjunct math professor and cannot pay my bills. I love Applied Mathematics:, MDP, Game Theory, Simulation and I want to transition into some kind of Data Science field where I can learn more and utilize knowledge I have from grad school and more. I am not particularly interested in Finance or Medicine, and would find it much more interesting to work for physicists, chemists, biologists, economists, or other scientists. I am also very concerned about being able to acquire a career of this sort (and keeping it considering my depression). 

My current plan is to finish 4 Coursera specializations: Python, Data Science, Data Science with R, Intermediate Data Science; 3 textbooks: Probability and Statistics for Engineers (mostly a review, but my education heavily learns toward Modeling and Probability Theory rather than Statistics), Linear Models with R, and Acing the Data Science Interview. After doing a few projects and developing a portfolio, I hope that I can find an entry level position. Then, over the next 2-3 years I would like to study Machine Learning and finding the intersection with that and my OR background --Hopefully such a field exists. At this time I may get a second masters or maybe finish my PhD. Finally, I would hope to have a career when I turn 50.

I understand my depression is a big problem, but I am not going to just go on welfare and eek out an existence for the rest of my life. If you will, please look past this issue for the moment.

My current questions are: 
1) What is your opinion of my plan? Is it viable? What roadblocks might I encounter?
2) What job titles should I apply for as an entry-level data scientist? Data Analyst, Data Scientist, Data Engineer, MLOps, MLE.... I really don't know where I would fit.
3) Although I want to work for scientists, is this domain viable? Should I apply for my common domains like FAANG, Finance, or Medicine?
4) Ultimately, what job title should I be aiming for considering my interests.

Lastly, any other advice would be greatly appreciated!

Thank you!

Comments:
- I am not too knowledgeable about transitioning from academia to industry but I can probably comment on the intersection between operations research and ML. Its a very sought after field in supply chain planning companies. Its quite exciting to work in the field if you can solve problems that keep arising there. 

The major roadblock I see is the transition from academia to industry and the fact that you will have a gap of a few months/years before you intend to pick your career up again. 

Good luck!
- In very brief, I would first suggest applying to IT/ ML/ AI consulting firms. Your skills will be useful on many projects, you can learn in a more structured way from those many projects. In consulting I met several consultants with a background similar to yours, and they were doing well.
- Is his plan ok?
- Best wishes with your career journey
- I am not intending a gap, but I figure it might take that about of time to develop my knowledge and skills to that level. Furthermore, as of now, I have 0 experience working in DS/DA. I figure that I probably need some experience before going for my career-level job.

Supply chain problems would certainly be fun for me. I enjoyed Network Flows and it would be very interesting to see how I could apply Machine Learning to that. I have also used simulation for inventory control problems, but not Network Flows yet.
- If you need referrals, I work for a supply chain consulting company in a role that combines data science and operations research.
- That would be awesome! I don't know if I am prepared yet for the role as I am still early on my educational path. I should be closer to that goal near the end of the summer. It would be great to have the contact whenever possible,  however.
- DM me.
