Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/f6ukhp/did_you_enjoy_learning_biology/
Title: Did you enjoy learning Biology?

Content:
Recently I've started to see how fascinating biology is when presented through the right lense. Journey to the Microcosmos is one offender. This playlist on molecular machines pretty much exploded my mind nd last night https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0YwC2nxTIpLpNhxun6WllvtK_7llckw5. I remember years ago listening to an audiobook on evolution that blew my mind. One of the take aways for me was to see life as the host for genetic code. Like it was the propagation of the code that mattered, not the quality of life for the organism. Sadly, I can't remember the name of that book.

High school was the last time I paid attention to chemistry or biology and man was it b-o-r-i-n-g. But these YouTube videos are amazing. They have me wanting to  learn more.

But is it boring? I actually self-taught myself quite a bit of math so I can learn hard things. But I wonder if that fascinating view of biology only comes after years in the boring weeds.

Comments:
- I'm in 10th grade and I'm ""majoring"" biology and to be honest it's really fun and interesting even though I have a day where i learn 3 periods in a row. Just finished hormones and now I'm learning genetics, sometimes it can be very confusing but after you get the whole process and ideas through you get addicted to it, atleast for me.
- High school biology was pretty boring to be honest, with few exceptions. But undergrad was profoundly interesting to me, and filled with so many "aha" moments.

Often biology is approached as a collection of loosely related facts. But at some point, doing molecular/cell biology, you start to see the fundamental building blocks, and most importantly how they interact. And biology become less an collection of facts and more like a network of mechanisms that allow life to emerge. Embedded networks as well: molecules inside of cells inside of organisms inside of ecosystems.

I find that *connecting* different pieces of knowledge is the most reliable source of "Aha" moments for me, and I enjoy it a lot.
- Its not boring to me. You will have to read chapters and chapters of a book for (college level)class just like any other science. To me, reading all that is boring. Not biology. You just have to get in a habit and do your best to get through the material. 

You don't need too much math. You just need a good memory and have the ability to endure a lot of reading.
- I thought biology was human anatomy and physiology until like 10th grade where we started to cover genetics/cells/ ecology. From the moment I learned about food webs, I was 100% sold. I’m getting a masters in it now and my dream job would to be a professor.  

I even like learning human anatomy and physiology now!
- I didn't really enjoy highschool biology, highschool in general was not very interesting, and highschool biology was mostly focussed on human anatomy, which is the area of biology that interests me the least.

but yes, after highschool it was interesting. I focussed on plants so I could stay as far away from human anatomy as possible. biology is fascinating(even aspects of human anatomy I can apreciate, like how the white blood cells kind of have their own 'evolution' during an infection, and how that is achieved), but I think it does have to kind of your thing.

you have to have an interest in the web of interacting factors and processes that make up the life life around you. it is really fascinating, but not everyone likes to really study the gritty details. I do, but I can't say if you will.
- Thanks for the reply. So how do you think about biology? From watching YouTube videos the way I think of it with my limited knowledge is in terms of simple little machines that work in the most peculiar ways. Especially some of the molecular machines are just like whoa dude. 

When you think of biology do you think of data that you learned in a book or do you think of it in terms of real three-dimensional objects or if you think of it in some other way?
