Source: Reddit/datascience
URL: https://reddit.com/r/datascience/comments/zhltzm/experience_in_data_science_but_want_to_move_into/
Title: Experience in Data Science but want to move into Software Engineering. Feeling unsure and depressed about my career so far

Content:
**tl;dr: 5 years as a data professional outside of tech, strong R and Python skills, current job at $120-130K salary range. Want to get into tech (have tried in past without success), but considering switching to SWE because I enjoy developing more than the data work I've done so far. Unsure and looking for insight.**

Hey all,

I've been working as a data professional for the past 5 years in academia and government after obtaining a masters degree in clinical research (strong stats skills).  I've seen people say 'all you need to know is a little bit of python and you can EASILY get a $150K+ data science job". I don't know if that's people just exaggerating on the internet or that I'm truly behind (it does feel like my progression hasn't been as great as others at times). I have solid R and Python skills, 5 year progression has been $54K->$80-$93K-$120-130K-this is outside of tech, I tried to apply for a tech job last year and couldn't find one.

I've made improvements to my Github, got an interactive dashboard published in a journal and completed a Python ML course since that time, but for the past year or so, I was already considering switching to SWE because I personally feel I enjoy developing more than deploying ML models-I've used both Python and R to develop things (I know R is not intrinsically a dev language) and a teeny bit of JS before I started seriously focusing on strengthening my dev skills over the course of the year. There are some things I do enjoy about DS (visualizing data, especially) but overall I haven't really liked any of the data jobs I've had at all. I just feel like the long story short is every place I've worked has inconsistencies or uncertainties of what they're expecting from a 'data' person (which sometimes leads to a lot of pointless work) and that the people on the team also have variable skillsets (I've worked with a lot of people who don't know R or Python that made working on certain tasks challenging as I've had to do the heavy-lifting for places where coding was required). Maybe my issue is that I haven't yet worked on a DS team in tech, but I don't know if the issue is working outside of tech or maybe that data science isn't my primary forte as much as software engineering.

I'm just concerned that by trying to switch to SWE, I'm going to have to work even harder with uncertainty if I'd get a good salary at this rate. Tbh, I feel really depressed when people talk about their $300K+ salaries or how they're even working TWO jobs with those kind of salaries whereas I don't even have one job breaking the $150K mark yet. My career hasn't really gone smoothly-in my last job I was supposed to get a promotion but it never came through due to logistical issues and I was the only data person on my team who knew how to program and saved our team thousands of hours of work because of it (the analysts previously were copying and pasting summary tables on Excel). The job I did prior to that one-my boss threatened to fire me only because I asked if he could hire a junior employee to do data entry rather than have me do it and screamed at me the reason he hired a 'masters level data' person was to do data entry (lol). I want to add that I'm a woman of color and look young, so people have treated me horribly in the workplace throughout my life. I'm so ready to get that 'amazing' job and feel I have what it takes, but unsure if I'm only going to prolong my chances at that if I make the switch to SWE with 5 years of data experience. Some insight would be appreciated.

&#x200B;

Comments:
- JNJ is spinning off a company, and that company is hiring a ton. Apply, you never know. They have some good paying DS jobs. Also data entry for MS, what to heck; guy is nuts.
