Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/kglqbm/galapagos_finches_inspire_some_thoughts_on_the/
Title: Galapagos Finches inspire some thoughts on the waves of COVID-19.

Content:
*Among Charles Darwin’s stories, one of the most familiar is about the finches (little songbirds) that he saw in the Galapagos Islands. After colonizing the islands, a single pioneering species had diversified into several. Is SARS-CoV-2, having recently colonized the human body, diversifying into novel strains responsible for the waves of infection that are now occurring? After all, the human body, like Earth’s environments, presents many varied microhabitats.* 

After submarine volcanos spewed enough lava to rise above the sea surface, colonization began on the naked, new islands. As the Galapagos Islands are located far from other inhabited lands, new arrivals were infrequent. By the time a few finches arrived, a variety of habitats had developed where the birds could find food and other necessities of life. Food collection in the different habitats could be done most successfully by individuals with different features. A hungry finch pursuing insects under leaves or tree bark might succeed more often if its beak was narrower or longer than that of another finch. Opening a nourishing seedpod, one can assume, was easier for a finch with a beak that was a bit sturdier, or a bird with a more powerful bite. Because well-fed individuals were more energetic than their relatives were, they could sing louder, court better, build better nests, lay larger numbers of more healthy eggs, and leave more offspring. Over generations, finches exploiting different habitats began to acquire distinct sets of features inherited from their parents. Evolution happened. Today, more than thirteen species of finch share a common ancestry: the original few immigrants that were able to breed.

Over a year ago, the virus that is now spreading among human populations and causing COVID-19 invaded a human body for the first time. The variety of consequences of infection perplex us. It is agreed that we acquire infections by inhaling virus-laden watery droplets exhaled by an infected person. Subsequent events that happen when viruses land on the lining of the respiratory system remain under study. In regard to the coronaviruses that cause Severe Acquired Respiratory Syndromes (MERS, SARS-1 and SARS-2), the infectious particles display surface spikes that do what most proteins do; they get together with other proteins. In the case of SARS-CoV-2, molecules of a spike protein projecting from the viral surface get together with a protein (ACE2) present on several cell types that occur in the trachea, lungs and elsewhere. This human protein is one target (it is a binding site) of the spike protein. There are probably others; CD147, PPIA and PPIB are suspects (Beddingfield & Bix, 2020). Different human cells may or may not display proteins that are targets for viral proteins. These characteristics together with the access that the virus particles have to the cell surfaces determine which cells are entered.

As chains of viral DNA and RNA replicate, errors occur. Viruses mutate. The details do not need to be known in order to follow this train of thought. It is enough to know that, over time, the genetic sequence of SARS-CoV-2 changes incrementally. Like the finches on the Galapagos Islands, variety enters the virus population.

In general, viruses that have grown in one host species will be neutralized or be unable to survive in a new host species, akin to our fates when we colonize planets other than Earth. Habitats and colonists are simply mismatched.  The system does not meet all the needs of the alien. Rarely, a novel virus finds conditions tolerable. Among those viruses, some express surface proteins that have affinities for molecules expressed on some host cells that they encounter. If such attractions occur, a virus particle may make its way into the cytoplasm of the cell. There, it may be able to unpack its genetic chemistry. It may be able to replicate, and even package the new RNA chains, as it must do. The newly packaged particles must escape from the cells in which they were made, avoid encountering and being recognized by components of the immune system, and get the host to transport them to a tissue site from where they can access another prospective host individual. This array of needs is quite demanding.

At first, a virus that has jumped to a new host species is not well adjusted to conditions in that new host. Nevertheless, inspired by Darwin’s creative imagination, we can see that variants, which emerge within the virus population, may differ in ways that affect each step of their life cycles. Those that, once replicated, are transported to the linings of the respiratory system may become launched in fluid droplets and may infect a new person.

During this first year of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have come to realize that symptoms and outcomes are highly variable from person to person. We find ourselves wondering: “If I get COVID, will I have any symptoms, or many symptoms? Will I get really sick? Will I become a “long hauler”? Will I die?”  By December 2020, we have identified both genetic and lifestyle attributes associated with differences in disease outcomes, but it remains impossible to predict that any single patient will be asymptomatic, incur mild or serious disease, experience a cytokine storm or a blood clotting disorder, or die. Nature reveals herself to us at a frustratingly slow pace. Both nature and nurture influence disease progression. However, just which elements of nature and of lifestyle have impacts? Are seasonal waves due to climate? How? How do effects interact? What are those impacts at the tissue, cellular and molecular levels? In addition, what determine the severity of each impact?

Currently, people are asking which of many candidate vaccines will prove most effective. The question exposes more voids in our knowledge; here our understanding of what underlays the potency (immunogenicity) of different formulations. The first approved vaccines are RNA vaccines and provoke host cells to make virus spike protein. Others will inject the protein itself.  Solvents and other components of each inoculum vary from one vaccine to another. Some aim to favor provocation of T-cell immunity whereas others putatively favor antibody production.

By the time of the next pandemic, we had better understand more about vaccine development and optimization for populations differing in geographic location, ethnicity, age, state of health and anything else (potentially host genetic variability) that influences human responses to vaccines. Not only vaccine composition, but dose size, dose number, dose interval, site of injection (or infusion, intra-nasal or intra-vascular), and immunostimulants; these are more topics about which uncertainties and voids exist in our knowledgebase.

Something concerns me more: the inevitability that SARS-CoV-2 is evolving or will evolve. This may underlay an important matter that is known to occur but for which explanations are hard to find - second waves. Why do they occur? Attentive observation, informed inference and experimental research have exposed some “what’s” and a few “how’s”, but essentially no “why’s” as to the ways of coronaviruses. Each virus may evolve into more than one strain. Different strains will likely differ in the identities of their target cells, the efficiency with which they accomplish host cell entry, un-packaging, replication, re-packaging, transport and transmission. These features will influence their pathogenicity and virulence. Add to those attributes the possibilities for antigenic shifts and evolution of resistance to therapeutic drugs (when these are developed and deployed) and we are confronted by more than a single truth. First, this pandemic benefits from multiple paths for adjustment to human hosts.  SARS-CoV-2 may change in transmission efficiency, host tissue specificity, virulence, capacity to survive on surfaces or elsewhere, and more. Second, we had better behave responsibly now and as we go forward, doing everything we can to put this virus behind us. Then let us do what we can to lessen chances of another pandemic that may be waiting in the wings. When that occurs, we must have used the present pandemic to inform ourselves about best strategies for diagnosis and treatment.

&#x200B;

Information Sources.

Beddingfield, B.J. and Bix, G.J. 2020.  In the Age of COVID: Genomic Changes Over the Lifespan Help Explain Severe SARS-CoV-2 Disease. J Am Coll Cardiol Basic Transl Science. 2020 Nov, 5 (11) 1124–1126.

&#x200B;

[www.pbs.org](https://www.pbs.org) › wgbh › evolution › library

Evolution: Library: Adaptive Radiation: Darwin's Finches – PBS.  Consulted Dec 15, 2020.

&#x200B;

The author Christopher J. Bayne is a retired professor of Integrative Biology (Oregon State University) and member of the Emeritus College at Arizona State University. His compassion for fellow beings, and a sense of intrigue, provoke him to write about matters that relate to his former professional areas of immunoparasitology, genomics and bioinformatics.

Comments:
- Share your opinion: are these ideas reasonable?
