Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/awrih0/how_did_they_not_prove_that_schizophrenia_is_a/
Title: How did they not prove that Schizophrenia is a false cause

Content:
 

## How did they not prove that Schizophrenia is a false cause

The  birth of schizophrenia as valid concept was after the great wars in   Germany and all over the Earth, people were decimated by directed energy   devices based on radios transmitting heat and radiation through tanks,   trenches, and machine gunners dying looking like Terri Schiavo. As  soon  as the Czechoslovakian made this weapon, the center Eastern Europe  was  impossible to defeat, surveillance was rampant, those with the  sadness  of have heritage be so plainly impoverished and lied  to, they  were interned to hospitals for research, the coincidence  is  supremely  logical, this was to hide radiowave data zones and espionage  with  hearing their sub-vocalizations and spoken words of people. Germany  had  to assemble fast, with displacing the then current concerns of the   Dukes and Queens, and instead they industrialized and became a   confederation as protection from the East. The Freemasons learned from   Volta about the use of electricity and accordingly they helped manifest   invention on U.S. soil free in the 1790's to be moded with directed   energy devices that have espionage and modify behavior of person to   desired effect of the operator for their mission. French operators of   the radio energy grid could only communicate amongst themselves and   there was nothing but omnidirectional spreads and unreliable means to   ensure precision of delivering selection, but a separation of voices.   Early secret blueprints and schematics of the radio internal components   boards were primitive but effective, 1850's brought the frequencies   experiments on human life in Transylvania and Romania to measure   frequencies and cycles within the human brain. The race to invent a   counter measure to minds focusing in on these illegal experiments was   the research on Ephedra which they came up with Amphetamine in 1860's   and then methamphetamine in the early 1900's. Addiction is a proper way   to exhaust the desires of discovery to a plane of just being a slave   within a slave. A slavery of all slaveries perpetuated by an act of   congress after the civil war, to allow the formation of technologies of   radio coming to the theoretical limits of its possible use. 1910. Radio   towers are built, Television in infancy, yet still existing, The  towers  are multi platform  usage for surveillance and manipulation  experiments.  By 1933 there are radio towers everywhere and the old  rural charm of  innocence is traded for  a synthetic and artificial  place WITHOUT ones  proper birth given brain to philosophize and not  give in to broadcasting  telepathy automations from key phrases heard by  the operator forcing  people to settle that the offered propaganda is  the authentic honest  facts about living.

Comments:
- R/conspiracytheories wrong sub
- r/mentalillness works too.
