Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/ccfs0r/seeking_suggestions_about_graduate_school_program/
Title: Seeking suggestions about graduate school program choice- bioinformatics,neuroscience or data science?

Content:
Hello hello beautiful people of the internet, hope you guys are all having a wonderful day,  I'm a fourth year college student majoring in cognitive science- neuroscience (it's like a interdisciplinary field of neuroscience+ a bit of programming, and I also have a minor in biology) in the States. Recently I'm having a hard time finding out what to study in graduate school...I feel like I don't have a strong background in biology (i've only taken chemistry through the organic chemistry and a only took one class of molecular bio/ one biochem/one genetics) nor do i have a strong coding background (2 course about Java basics, 3 data science course, and 2 machine learning course from Cognitive Science)...Right now I just feel that I can't compete with neither the hardcore bio students nor the CS students if I want to apply for graduate school:-( I don't know what direction should I go and what to do afterwards. People are always telling me that Bioinformaticians are very desirable nowadays in labs yada yada, but I don't know if my background will help me get into any of the bioinformatics master program in the states? I feel like I need to take more classes of related subjects before I apply for graduate school, if so, can anyone give me some suggestions about what classes should I take? I really want to hear from more experienced people, anything will be appreciated ! Thank you thank you thank you and have a wonderful day!  I apologize for any potential/ possible inconveniences that I might've brought! :-D

Comments:
- I don't have a ton of advice, because I'm kinda in the same situation... But I know someone who recently graduated from a Master's data science program of a not well-known public university. They just got a job in San Francisco and are going to have a decent income, even in such a high cost of living area. So definitely take data science into consideration
- That sounds really tempting, thank you for this information!
