Source: Reddit/bioinformatics
URL: https://reddit.com/r/bioinformatics/comments/16gsq9w/should_i_get_a_devops_job_or_a_data_science_phd/
Title: Should I get a Devops job or a data science PhD?

Content:
For context, I am an international student in Europe, so any option that may risk my residence permit (such as being unemployed or without an active Uni enrollment for a long period) are out of the question. Also, due to bureocracy, becoming a student again after getting a work permit is not a good idea (so either I get a PhD now or I probably never will). Also, I have a BSc. in biology and a MSc. in bioinformatics.

The issue is, I earned my masters in bioinformatics by working in a Devops project that was mostly focused on running applications on the Cloud, yet included a biology component so it could count as a bioinformatic thesis. Regarding my passions, I greatly enjoyed my bioinformatics master, yet I felt more motivated by courses that focused on mathematic models, machine learning, big data infrastructures, algorithms and data structures, etc. Thus, I decided to work with a CS heavy thesis that I enjoyed. However, I low-key resented the fact that many of my peers carried out full ML projects, while most of my thesis experience revolved around porting already existing software for cloud environments. I mean, I loved working with Github, Kubernetes, etc., but just debugging and porting existing software felt like a waste of my programming knowledge. Furthermore, I felt that my final thesis was cool, yet involved several CS concepts that I (as a biologist) didn't really understand. In summary, I really enjoyed it, but it was frustrating to realize how far behind I am with respect to people that studied CS. 

Now, my thesis advisor liked my work and wants me to take a 1 year fellowship contract (renewable for one more year only) with his institution. The project would involve full DevOps activities (no biology involved). However, I am not sure if I could ever compete with people with a CS background, so I feel like I will end up unemployed and without any relevant bioinformatics experience. Thus, I have now found a paid PhD opportunity that sounds interesting since it involves one of my favorite topics: machine learning (I am not that interested in the actual biological topic, however). Also, the prospect of being highly qualified and, thus, reducing the risk of ever being unemployed in the future sounds like a good deal. My only worry with the PhD is perhaps becoming too old to get an entry level job (I would graduate in my 30s). 

So, given both opportunities and my concerns, how should I go about making my decision?

Comments:
- DevOps is often a different department in big companies from software engineering, let alone bioinformatics. You don’t need a PhD for either. If you like DevOps, there’s a lot of infrastructure out there to be managed. Otherwise I’d do as much CS as possible.
- Having a PhD in data science may mean you won’t be out of a job. But it depends on what happens with all the AI coming down the road. Model development might become obsolete. What won’t become obsolete is glue and infrastructure.
- Thanks for your response. But would it really be possible for me to enter the DevOps field as a biologist/bioinformatician? My Cloud project was fun, but I only managed to get anything done by googling and looking at documentation for hours on end. I struggled to get the most basic things working, and I only got away with it because there was no major hurry. Besides, nothing needed to be "production-ready" since nobody but me accessed the services I exposed. 

In comparison, my CS graduate colleague took less than a week to get a website running for bioinformatic workflow on the Cloud. I mean, it's possible that I could get better with this DevOps fellowship opportunity, but I feel that, with a 1-2 year contract, it would still be a gamble given how far behind I am with respect to CS graduates.
- Naturally your mileage may vary. I'm only going on who I've hired and seen hired. There wouldn't be any objection to your field of study. In some cases like biotech/pharma it might help. The issue would be whether you like it a lot. My group does a lot of DevOps in the service of bioinformatics, but we're not doing as much bioinformatics with all the infra to build. But in my experience, the biotech/pharma world is not close-minded. There are opportunities to branch out into stuff you find interesting. But as always take any advice with a grain of salt.
