Source: Reddit/biology
URL: https://reddit.com/r/biology/comments/dze6d/what_do_you_guys_think/
Title: What do you guys think?

Content:
I'm sure this idea has been tossed around, but I wanted to bring it up here in my own version. Sorry it's a bit lengthy, but there's humor in it. As an exp I'll x-post to religion.

Imagine yourself living in a time and space when and where you and your race/species has fully understood how everything absolutely works. You have the capability to travel to the ends of the universe, to live eternally in good health, and get this, to create life de novo. Now this creating life business isn't as easy as a snap of a finger, unlike cooking dinner in this distant future. In fact, this vivogenesis requires building the most elaborate Machine ever conceived.

So you as project leader and a team of engineers set out to construct this Machine. You place into this Machine-system 200 elemental raw building blocks. You write a programming language of sorts to govern this system, and also electro-chemical-physical laws to define how these elemental blocks can interact with each other. Needless to say, this machine is a bit more complex than your run-of-the-mill automated Higgs-boson synthesis machine. This machine and its products intimately interact, and do not exist as separate entities.

You've constructed your Machine, what now? The team wrote a program for generating this very specific life form, designated as project title namuH. You load the program into the Machine-system and let it run. Because you're basically immaculate at this point in your time and space since you're so advanced, you're absolutely confident your program is flawless and will create a perfect namuH, and it does. The program specifies that to generate the namuH, several byproducts must be formed. The initial phase of the synthesis process yields an intermediate that looks nothing like the namuH, in fact it's tiny, nanoscopically tiny. This tiny intermediate is further processed and developed into a multi-body life form, but it's still very far away from the namuH. A few life forms existing as functional "organisms" are developed, and exit the developmental pathway as quasi-stable byproducts. These byproducts, you've designed, will actually serve to sustain the namuH once it's formed. Finally after a month or two of running the program with many byproduct organisms accumulated, the first namuH becomes operational.

You and your development team are stoked. During the 2 months of namuH-genesis, your team wrote up a patch to address the exceedingly long production/manufacturing process--because eventually you'd like to mass produce the namuH. This patch basically enables a copy, merge, randomize, paste function to occur between two interacting flavors of namuHs or any byproduct organisms to procreate new, unique life forms, thus bypassing running the original program from line 1 every time you wanted to produce a replacement life form. This update patch was not retro-compatible to certain byproducts, so they still function on the auto-regeneration program. One downside to this patch is that aberrations arise every time a life form is procreated on account of the randomization function; each individual is no longer perfect/free of mutation. However, your boss is still ecstatic you cut production time and manufacturing materials by several magnitudes of power.

Project namuH was special, because the intention was to create a life form that is self-aware, capable of self-regeneration, and possesses the ability to learn, rationalize, love, create ideas, and express intelligence--features that none of the byproduct life forms possessed in whole. Years down the line, Project namuH and its Machine-system reached operational self-sustaining sufficiency. Indeed the intelligent namuHs learned to appreciate themselves, each other, and the Machine-system that so elegantly sustained them and produced them. Because you and your team developed an entirely different set of physical laws from your own to govern namuHs, you have a hard time communicating to these intelligent creatures. Yet, you've grown very fond of them and you love them nonetheless.

Later on, your employer has decided to discontinue the project's funds. But since the system has become self-sufficient because of an excellent closed-system conservation of mass and energy, you and your team leave it running at no cost. You check in from time to time to see how your Humans are doing.

Comments:
- [deleted]
- r/scifi might get a kick out of this.
- Upvoted for the usage of the word stoked. Interesting read, wouldn't mind reading more!
- I'm running the experiments, results/data in a few billion years. You sound like my old PI.
